First batch for the new components doc (#24571)
DataDog/datadog-agent: docs/public/components/shared_features/flares.md

# Flare

The general idea is to register a callback within your component to be called each time a flare is created. This uses
[Fx](../fx.md) groups under the hood, but helpers are there to abstract all the complexity.

> Then, migrate the code related to your component's domain from `pkg/flare` to your component and delete it from

Reviewer: This reads like it's the last step in a series of steps. Did you read to write more before this?

> Once the callback is created you will have to migrate the code related to your component from `pkg/flare` to your

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Once the callback is created, you will have to migrate the code related to your component from `pkg/flare` to your
```

component.

## Creating a callback

> To add data to a flare you will first need to register a callback, aka a `FlareBuilder`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To add data to a flare, you first need to register a callback, also known as a `FlareBuilder`.
```

> Within your component create a method with the following signature `func (c *yourComp) fillFlare(fb flaretypes.FlareBuilder) error`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Within your component, create a method with the following signature: `func (c *yourComp) fillFlare(fb flaretypes.FlareBuilder) error`.
```

This function is called every time the Agent generates a flare, either from the CLI, RemoteConfig or from the running
Agent. Your callback takes a
[FlareBuilder](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core/flare/types#FlareBuilder) as parameter.
This object provides all the helpers functions needed to add data to a flare (adding files, copying
directories, scrubbing data, and so on).

Example:

```golang
import (
	yaml "gopkg.in/yaml.v2"

	flaretypes "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core/flare/types"
)

func (c *myComponent) fillFlare(fb flaretypes.FlareBuilder) error {
	// Creating a new file
	fb.AddFile(
		"runtime_config_dump.yaml",
		[]byte("content of my file"),
	)

	// Copying a file from the disk into the flare
	fb.CopyFile("/etc/datadog-agent/datadog.yaml")
	return nil
}
```

> Read the [FlareBuilder](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core/flare/types#FlareBuilder) package documentation for for more information on the API.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Read the [FlareBuilder](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core/flare/types#FlareBuilder) package documentation for more information on the API.
```

> Any error returned by the `FlareBuilder` methods are already logged into a file shipped within the flare. This means, in

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Any errors returned by the `FlareBuilder` methods are logged into a file shipped within the flare. This means, in
```

most cases, you can ignore errors returned by the `FlareBuilder` methods. In all cases, ship as much data as possible in a flare instead of stopping at the first error.

> Returning an error from your callback does not stop the flare from being created or sent but will be logged into the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Returning an error from your callback does not stop the flare from being created or sent. Rather, the error is logged into the
```

flare too.

While it's possible to register multiple callbacks from the same component, try to keep all the flare code in a single callback.

## Register your callback

> Now you need to register your callback to be called each time a flare is created. To do so your component constructor

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Now you need to register your callback to be called each time a flare is created. To do this, your component constructor
```

> need to provide a new [Provider](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core/flare/types#Provider).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
needs to provide a new [Provider](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core/flare/types#Provider).
```

Example:
```golang
import (
	flaretypes "github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core/flare/types"
)

type Provides struct {
	// [...]

	// Declare that your component will return a flare provider
	FlareProvider flaretypes.Provider
}

func newComponent(deps Requires) Provides {
	// [...]

	return Provides{
		// [...]

		// NewProvider will wrap your callback in order to be use as a 'Provider'
		FlareProvider: flaretypes.NewProvider(myComponent.fillFlare),
	}, nil
}
```

## Testing

The flare component offers a
[FlareBuilder mock](https://github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/blob/d0035f997e796204ec4ec07a8bc467c85b9ee6fb/comp/core/flare/helpers/builder_mock.go#L22) to test your callback.

Example:
```golang
import (
	"testing"
	"github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/comp/core/flare/helpers"
)

func TestFillFlare(t testing.T) {
	myComp := newComponent(...)

	flareBuilderMock := helpers.NewFlareBuilderMock(t)

	myComp.fillFlare(flareBuilderMock, false)
	
	flareBuilderMock.AssertFileExists("datadog.yaml")
	flareBuilderMock.AssertFileContent("some_file.txt", "my content")
	// ...
}
```

## Migrating your code

Now comes the hard part: migrating the code from

> [pkg/flare](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/pkg/flare) related to you component to your new

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
[`pkg/flare`](https://pkg.go.dev/github.com/DataDog/datadog-agent/pkg/flare) related to your component to your new
```
